Javascript: single threaded

✅ Data Types
Primitive: String, Number, Boolean, BigInt, Null, Undefined, Symbol
Non Primitive: Object, Array, 

✅ JavaScript Object
Object is a collection of key-value pairs.
Keys are strings type; values can be any data type.

✅ Var let const(these are used to create variables)
Var - function scoped , can be redeclared and updated( re initiliased) 
Let - block scoped, cannot redeclared but can be updated. 
Const - block scoped, cannot be redeclared or updated.

✅ Hoisting
It is the defailt behaviour by which the variable and function declaration are moved 
to top of scope. 
Note: functions are fully hoisted, function expression not hoisted, classesnot hoisted!

✅ Null vs undefined
Null - Means a variable is explicitly set to "no value" 
undefined- means variable is declared but not assigned value.

✅ Callbacks functions
Are functions that are passed as an argument to another functions. 

✅ IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression) 
It is a JavaScript function that is defined and executed immediately after its definition.

✅ Map method 
Applies a function to each element of the array amd returns a new array.
use case- doubling of array

✅ Filter method filters an array based on a condition, and creates a new array. 
Ex- finding even  or odd nos

✅ Reduce method: 
 process  array and reduce it to a single value!
Ex- summing elements, flattening of array

✅ DOM
full form: document object model. 
It is a programming interface for HTML documents. 
It represents our document as a tree of nodes.

✅ What is BOM?
BOM (Browser Object Model) is a collection of objects like browser window, history, location. 

✅ Use strict
It is a feature that allows to write cleaner safer and more optimized JavaScript code..

✅ Settimeout
Is used to invoke a function once after a delay. 

✅ Setintervals
used to repeatedly invoke a function at a specified time interval, until it is cleared. 

✅ Closure is a function inside another function that has access to its outer scope even after the outer function has returned.
use case: data hiding, privacy


✅ Arrow function
Concise way to write function. 
Do not bind this value.

✅ Properties of arrow functions
Arrow function do not have their own this, they inherit the value of this from parent


✅ Destructuring 
Is A syntax to extract values from arrays or objects. 
It was introduced to simplify code and make it more readable.

✅ Rest operator (...)
Rest operator collects the arguments in a array.


✅ Spread operator (...)
used to expand array or object into individual elements.

✅ Promise 
Definition- Promise is an object that stores the future result of an asynchronous operation. 
Use Case: to handle asynchronous operations like fetching data.
Properties: state and result
3 states of promise : pending, fulfilled, rejected. 

✅ ASYNC AND AWAIT KEYWORDS
Async await is syntactic sugar built on the top of promises. 
They are introduced to handle async operation in a synchronous like manner. 
Async functions return promise , await pauses the execution until the promise is resolved.

✅ What are classes? 
Classes are templates to create JavaScript objects.

✅ How to select an element in the Dom?
by methods like document.get element by ID, get elements by class name, 
get elements by tag name, query selector, query selector all


✅ Event loop
It is a mechanism that helps JavaScript to handle asynchronous operations efficiently. 
It enables the non blocking IO operations. 

Part of event loop
1. Call stack
2. Callback Queue- stores macrotasks like:setTimeout, setInterval
3. Microtask queue - Stores microtasks like:  Promises
Extra: Even though JS is single-threaded, the event loop allows it to behave asynchronously.

Priority order with example: call stack( console.logs), then microtask queue (promise) , then callback queue( setTimeout) 

✅ What is memoization?
Memoization is an optimization technique 
in which the results of expensive function calls are cached and reused.

✅ What is the difference between debounce and throttle?
Debounce delays the execution of a function until a certain amount of time has passed.
Throttle limits the execution of a function to once every specified interval.
Notes
